<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="adding_new_topics_to_a_map_in_oxygen_xml_editor">
    <title>Adding New Topics to a Map in Oxygen XML Editor</title>
    <shortdesc>Step by step: as you add topics to your map, you may want to create a new topic as a
        child or sibling of another topic. This is usually done at the map level.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>To add a new topic to a map, follow these steps:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>In the <wintitle>DITA Maps Manager</wintitle> right-click the node in the
                    current map where you want to add the new topic.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Select one of the following actions:</cmd>
                <info>
                    <ol>
                        <li><menucascade>
                                <uicontrol>Append child</uicontrol>
                                <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
                            </menucascade>Select this action to insert the new topic as a child of
                            the selected node. This action opens a <wintitle>New file dialog
                                box</wintitle> that allows you to select the type of document and
                            assists you with naming it. After you have configured your new topic,
                            click <uicontrol>Create</uicontrol>.</li>
                        <li><menucascade>
                                <uicontrol>Insert Before</uicontrol>
                                <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
                            </menucascade>Select this action to insert the new topic as a sibling to
                            the current node, before it. This action opens a <wintitle>New file
                                dialog box</wintitle> that allows you to select the type of document
                            and assists you with naming it. After you have configured your new
                            topic, click <uicontrol>Create</uicontrol>.</li>
                        <li><menucascade>
                                <uicontrol>Insert After</uicontrol>
                                <uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
                            </menucascade>Select this action to insert the new topic as a sibling to
                            the current node, after it. This action opens a <wintitle>New file
                                dialog box</wintitle> that allows you to select the type of document
                            and assists you with naming it. After you have configured your new
                            topic, click <uicontrol>Create</uicontrol>.</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>Duplicate</uicontrol> Select this action to create a copy of
                            the selected topic and insert it as a sibling. This action opens a
                            dialog box that allows you to choose the file name and location for the
                            newly created copy of the topic. After you have selected the name and
                            path for your new topic, click <uicontrol>OK</uicontrol>.<note
                                id="note_y2d_hcn_x2c">The value of the root ID is generated taking
                                the <cmdname>Use the file name as the value of the root ID
                                    attribute</cmdname> option from the <menucascade>
                                    <uicontrol>DITA</uicontrol>
                                    <uicontrol>Topics</uicontrol>
                                </menucascade>preference page into account. When the option is
                                deselected, a unique ID is generated. </note></li>
                    </ol>
                </info>
                <stepresult>The new topic is now referenced (as a <apiname>topicref</apiname>) in
                    the DITA map at the location where you inserted it and the new topic is opened
                    in the editor.</stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Save the DITA map</cmd>
                    <info>
                    <p>You can also change the order and nesting of topics in the <wintitle>DITA
                            Maps Manager</wintitle> view by doing either of the following:<ol>
                            <li>Select the topic to move while holding down the Alt key and use the
                                arrow keys to move it around.</li>
                            <li>Use the mouse to drag and drop the topic to the desired
                                location.</li>
                        </ol></p>
                    <p>The way your parent and child topics are organized in any particular output
                        depends on both the configuration of those topics in the map and the rules
                        of the output transformation that is applied to them. Do not assume that
                        your topics must have the same organization for all output types. The map
                        defines the organization of the topics, not the topics themselves. It is
                        possible to create a variety of maps, each with different organization and
                        configuration options to produce a variety of outputs.</p>
                    </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
